docs/examples.rst, before:

.. _examples:

************************
A few CLI usage Examples
************************

.. warning::

  Remember: the pipeline does not concatenate the reads. Whenever you use a pattern such as \* the pipeline will assemble each pair
  separately. When doing hybrid assemblies or mixing read types it is advised to **not use REGEX** and instead write the full file
  path.

Illumina-only assembly with paired end reads
============================================

::

   ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type illumina-only --try_spades
   --try_unicycler --shortreads_paired "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_R{1,2}.fastq"

.. note::

  This command will perform an illumina-only assembly using paired end reads with Unicycler and SPAdes assemblers.
  Since fastq files will be found by a pattern match users MUST ALWAYS double quote as: Example "illumina/SRR\*_{1,2}.fastq.gz"

Illumina-only assembly with single end reads
============================================

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type illumina-only --try_spades
  --try_unicycler --shortreads_single "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_single.fastq"

.. note::

  This command will perform an illumina-only assembly using unpaired reads with Unicycler and SPAdes assemblers.
  Since fastq files will be found by a pattern match users MUST ALWAYS double quote as: Example "SRR9696\*.fastq.gz"

Illumina-only assembly with both paired and single end reads
============================================================

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type illumina-only --try_spades --try_unicycler
  --shortreads_paired "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_R{1,2}.fastq" --shortreads_single "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_single.fastq"

.. note::

  This command will perform an illumina-only assembly using both paired and unpaired reads with Unicycler and SPAdes assemblers.
  Since fastq files will be found by a pattern match users MUST ALWAYS double quote it.

Long reads only with ONT reads (Using both Nanopolish and Medaka polishers)
===========================================================================

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type longreads-only --try_canu --try_flye --try_unicycler
  --medaka_sequencing_model r941_min_fast_g303 --nanopolish_fast5Path "dataset_1/ont/fast5_pass" --nanopolish_max_haplotypes 2000
  --genomeSize 2m --lr_type nanopore --longreads "dataset_1/ont/ont_reads.fastq"

.. note::

  This will perform a long reads only assembly using nanopore data with Canu, Flye and Unicycler assemblers. This specific command
  will also execute a polishing step with nanopolish (see ``--nanopolish_fast5Path``) and medaka (see ``--medaka_sequencing_model``).

.. tip::

  If neither ``--nanopolish_fast5Path`` nor ``--medaka_sequencing_model`` is set, the pipeline will not try to polish the assemblies using Nanopolish or Medaka, respectively.

Assembly in Hybrid mode 1
=========================

Assembling directly via Unicycler hybrid workflow, using Pacbio reads.

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type hybrid --lr_type pacbio
  --longreads sample_dataset/ont/ecoli_25X.fastq --shortreads_paired "../illumina/SRR9847694_{1,2}.fastq.gz" --try_unicycler

.. note::

  This command will execute a hybrid assembly directly through Unicycler's hybrid assembly mode.

Assembly in Hybrid mode 2
=========================

By polishing a longreads-only assembly with shortreads, additionally executing medaka and nanopolish (before the polishing with shortreads).

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type hybrid --try_unicycler --try_flye --try_canu --shortreads_paired "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_R{1,2}.fastq"
  --nanopolish_fast5Path dataset_1/ont/fast5_pass --nanopolish_max_haplotypes 5000 --medaka_sequencing_model r941_min_fast_g303 --genomeSize 2m --lr_type nanopore --longreads
  "dataset_1/ont/ont_reads.fastq"  --illumina_polish_longreads_contigs

.. note::

  This command will execute a hybrid assembly by polishing a longreads-only assembly with shortreads. The usage of ``nanopolish_fast5Path`` and ``medaka_sequencing_model``
  tells the pipeline to create additional assemblies where medaka and/or nanopolish are executed before Pilon (polishment with shortreads).

.. warning::

  Users must remember to use the parameters ``--try_unicycler`` or ``--try_spades`` otherwise they will not be executed.

Running with a configuration file
=================================

::

      ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c nextflow.config

Commit message:

Think it is ready for nf-core schema

docs/examples.rst, after:

.. _examples:

***********************
Some execution examples
***********************

.. warning::

  Remember: the pipeline does not concatenate the reads. Whenever you use a pattern such as \* the pipeline will assemble each pair
  separately. When doing hybrid assemblies or mixing read types it is advised to **not use REGEX** and instead write the full file
  path.

.. tip::

  The parameters ``--use_tower`` and ``--tower_token`` allows the user to launch the pipeline via `nextflow tower <https://tower.nf/>`_ in order to visualize its execution.

Illumina-only assembly with paired end reads
============================================

::

   ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type illumina-only --try_spades
   --try_unicycler --shortreads_paired "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_R{1,2}.fastq"

.. note::

  This command will perform an illumina-only assembly using paired end reads with Unicycler and SPAdes assemblers.
  Since fastq files will be found by a pattern match users MUST ALWAYS double quote as: Example "illumina/SRR\*_{1,2}.fastq.gz"

Illumina-only assembly with single end reads
============================================

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type illumina-only --try_spades
  --try_unicycler --shortreads_single "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_single.fastq"

.. note::

  This command will perform an illumina-only assembly using unpaired reads with Unicycler and SPAdes assemblers.
  Since fastq files will be found by a pattern match users MUST ALWAYS double quote as: Example "SRR9696\*.fastq.gz"

Illumina-only assembly with both paired and single end reads
============================================================

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type illumina-only --try_spades --try_unicycler
  --shortreads_paired "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_R{1,2}.fastq" --shortreads_single "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_single.fastq"

.. note::

  This command will perform an illumina-only assembly using both paired and unpaired reads with Unicycler and SPAdes assemblers.
  Since fastq files will be found by a pattern match users MUST ALWAYS double quote it.

Long reads only with ONT reads (Using both Nanopolish and Medaka polishers)
===========================================================================

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type longreads-only --try_canu --try_flye --try_unicycler
  --medaka_sequencing_model r941_min_fast_g303 --nanopolish_fast5Path "dataset_1/ont/fast5_pass" --nanopolish_max_haplotypes 2000
  --genomeSize 2m --lr_type nanopore --longreads "dataset_1/ont/ont_reads.fastq"

.. note::

  This will perform a long reads only assembly using nanopore data with Canu, Flye and Unicycler assemblers. This specific command
  will also execute a polishing step with nanopolish (see ``--nanopolish_fast5Path``) and medaka (see ``--medaka_sequencing_model``).

.. tip::

  If neither ``--nanopolish_fast5Path`` nor ``--medaka_sequencing_model`` is set, the pipeline will not try to polish the assemblies using Nanopolish or Medaka, respectively.

Assembly in Hybrid mode 1
=========================

Assembling directly via Unicycler hybrid workflow, using Pacbio reads.

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type hybrid --lr_type pacbio
  --longreads sample_dataset/ont/ecoli_25X.fastq --shortreads_paired "../illumina/SRR9847694_{1,2}.fastq.gz" --try_unicycler

.. note::

  This command will execute a hybrid assembly directly through Unicycler's hybrid assembly mode.

Assembly in Hybrid mode 2
=========================

By polishing a longreads-only assembly with shortreads, additionally executing medaka and nanopolish (before the polishing with shortreads).

::

  ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --outdir output --threads 5 --assembly_type hybrid --try_unicycler --try_flye --try_canu --shortreads_paired "dataset_1/sampled/illumina_R{1,2}.fastq"
  --nanopolish_fast5Path dataset_1/ont/fast5_pass --nanopolish_max_haplotypes 5000 --medaka_sequencing_model r941_min_fast_g303 --genomeSize 2m --lr_type nanopore --longreads
  "dataset_1/ont/ont_reads.fastq"  --illumina_polish_longreads_contigs

.. note::

  This command will execute a hybrid assembly by polishing a longreads-only assembly with shortreads. The usage of ``nanopolish_fast5Path`` and ``medaka_sequencing_model``
  tells the pipeline to create additional assemblies where medaka and/or nanopolish are executed before Pilon (polishment with shortreads).

.. warning::

  Users must remember to use the parameters ``--try_unicycler`` or ``--try_spades`` otherwise they will not be executed.

Running with a configuration file
=================================

::

      ./nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c nextflow.config

Running and configure from an interactive graphical interface
=============================================================

::

      nf-core launch fmalmeida/MpGAP
