docs/index.rst, before:

.. _index:

.. image:: lOGO_3_transparente.png
  :width: 250
  :align: left
  :alt: laboratory logo

----

MpGAP
=====

`MpGAP <https://github.com/fmalmeida/mpgap>`_ is a pipeline developed with `Nextflow <https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/index.html>`_ and `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_. It was designed to provide an easy-to-use framework for *de novo* genome assembly of Illumina, Pacbio and Oxford Nanopore sequencing data through illumina only, long reads only or hybrid modes.

It wraps up the following tools:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 40 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Analysis steps
     - Used software

   * - Long reads assembly
     - `Canu <https://github.com/marbl/canu>`_, `Flye <https://github.com/fenderglass/Flye>`_, `Unicycler <https://github.com/rrwick/Unicycler>`_, `Raven <https://github.com/lbcb-sci/raven>`_, `Shasta <https://github.com/chanzuckerberg/shasta>`_ and `wtdbg2 <https://github.com/ruanjue/wtdbg2>`_

   * - Hybrid assembly
     - `Haslr <https://github.com/vpc-ccg/haslr>`_, `Unicycler <https://github.com/rrwick/Unicycler>`_ and `SPAdes <https://github.com/ablab/spades>`_

   * - Short reads assembly
     - `Shovill <https://github.com/tseemann/shovill>`_, `Unicycler <https://github.com/rrwick/Unicycler>`_, `Megahit <https://github.com/voutcn/megahit>`_ and `SPAdes <https://github.com/ablab/spades>`_

   * - Assembly polishing
     - `Nanopolish <https://github.com/jts/nanopolish>`_, `Medaka <https://github.com/nanoporetech/medaka>`_, `gcpp <https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/gcpp>`_ and `Pilon <https://github.com/broadinstitute/pilon>`_

   * - Assembly QC
     - `Quast <https://github.com/ablab/quast>`_ and `MultiQC <https://multiqc.info/>`_

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   installation
   quickstart
   samplesheet
   manual
   config

Support Contact
---------------
Whenever a doubt arise feel free to contact me at almeidafmarques@gmail.com

Commit message:

Saving code that was wrongly merged to master instead of dev (#56)
* 31 new directory called final output (#48)

* add illumina docker test (#44)

* Update github actions for testing profiles (#46)

* add illumina docker test

* add other workflows as template

* update sreads singularity test action

* update lreads test actions

* add hybrid test actions

* remove unnecessary comments

* 30 change to unicycler v050 (#45)

* update version information

* remove old spades binary for new unicycler version

* update dockerfile to use new conda recipe

* add testing profiles

* working conda installation

* update multiqc report

* fixed docker image

* increase asked cpus

* Update nextflow_schema.json

* decrease expected genome size

* fix long reads assemblers installation

* split long reads samplesheets

* flye require 10.GB RAM

* update workflows

* easimon do not work in macos

* update java

* small update for tests

* canu needs 4 cpus

* update genome size value

* split samplesheet in ont & pacbio

* split proflies in ont & pacbio (hybrid)

* delete unused files

* new docker image has new python version

* docker image fixed

* skip flye tht requires much memory

* fixed pacbio execution

* revert to ubuntu

* canu also is too much for git actions

* remove unnecessary files

* modify pilon polish script to run on number of desired rounds

* fix output namings

* fix outputs

* pacbio profile working

* update pilon info in docs

* update changelog

* upload yml with version of installed tools

* update docs

* use quast to save resulting assemblies

* include citation information (#51)

* Update README.md

* update config

docs/index.rst, after:

.. _index:

.. image:: lOGO_3_transparente.png
  :width: 250
  :align: left
  :alt: laboratory logo

----

MpGAP
=====

`MpGAP <https://github.com/fmalmeida/mpgap>`_ is a pipeline developed with `Nextflow <https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/index.html>`_ and `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_. It was designed to provide an easy-to-use framework for *de novo* genome assembly of Illumina, Pacbio and Oxford Nanopore sequencing data through illumina only, long reads only or hybrid modes.

It wraps up the following tools:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 40 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Analysis steps
     - Used software

   * - Long reads assembly
     - `Canu <https://github.com/marbl/canu>`_, `Flye <https://github.com/fenderglass/Flye>`_, `Unicycler <https://github.com/rrwick/Unicycler>`_, `Raven <https://github.com/lbcb-sci/raven>`_, `Shasta <https://github.com/chanzuckerberg/shasta>`_ and `wtdbg2 <https://github.com/ruanjue/wtdbg2>`_

   * - Hybrid assembly
     - `Haslr <https://github.com/vpc-ccg/haslr>`_, `Unicycler <https://github.com/rrwick/Unicycler>`_ and `SPAdes <https://github.com/ablab/spades>`_

   * - Short reads assembly
     - `Shovill <https://github.com/tseemann/shovill>`_, `Unicycler <https://github.com/rrwick/Unicycler>`_, `Megahit <https://github.com/voutcn/megahit>`_ and `SPAdes <https://github.com/ablab/spades>`_

   * - Assembly polishing
     - `Nanopolish <https://github.com/jts/nanopolish>`_, `Medaka <https://github.com/nanoporetech/medaka>`_, `gcpp <https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/gcpp>`_ and `Pilon <https://github.com/broadinstitute/pilon>`_

   * - Assembly QC
     - `Quast <https://github.com/ablab/quast>`_ and `MultiQC <https://multiqc.info/>`_

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   installation
   quickstart
   samplesheet
   manual
   config

Citation
--------

In order to cite this pipeline, please refer to:

> Almeida FMd, Campos TAd and Pappas Jr GJ. Scalable and versatile container-based pipelines for de novo genome assembly and bacterial annotation. [version 1; peer review: awaiting peer review]. F1000Research 2023, 12:1205 (https://doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.139488.1)

Additionally, archived versions of the pipeline are also found in `Zenodo <https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3445485>`_.

Support Contact
---------------
Whenever a doubt arise feel free to contact me at almeidafmarques@gmail.com
