docs/installation.rst, before:

.. _installation:

Installation
============

Dependencies
------------

This pipeline requires only `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_ (and its Docker images) and `Nextflow <https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/index.html>`_ to run.

1. Installing Docker

   + Read more in their `manual <https://docs.docker.com/>`_

2. Installing Nextflow

   ``curl -s https://get.nextflow.io | bash``

3. Download the pipeline

   ``./nextflow pull fmalmeida/mpgap``

4. Test your installation

   ``./nextflow run fmalmeida/mpgap --help``

5. Download required Docker images

   ``docker pull fmalmeida/mpgap:v3.0``

6. (Optional) Install nf-core

   ``pip install nf-core>=1.10``

.. note::

  Now, everything is set up and ready to run. Remember to always keep your Docker images up to date (Docker pull will always download the latest).

.. tip::

	The pipeline requires a UNIX system, therefore, Windows users may successfully use this pipeline via the `Linux subsystem for windows <https://www.nextflow.io/blog/2021/setup-nextflow-on-windows.html>`_.

Commit message:

Adding conda and singularity profiles (#25)
* trying first implementation steps

* shasta is now packed inside pipeline

* add fixed version of spades for unicycler

* Conda Env Resolved

* Dockerfile Resolved

* ALE Linux Binary Added

* Adding identation in modules for readibility

* fixing ale

* ALE Binary Added

* Creating Maps to better handle results in workflows

* adding compiled wtdbg2

* updating conda message

* updating singularity information

* typo fix

* updating conda information

* add busco info

* fixing wtdng2 prefix

* fixing medaka dir permission in docker

* fixing wtdbg2 paths

* updating singularity information

* removing augustus and givin file permissions

* adding zenodo json

* updating zenodo json

* updating conda info

* updating readme

* changing to script in path

* fixing sample id in hybrid strategy 2

* adding rule to create env if not available

* add rule to download quast dbs if not available

* add rule to create conda env if not available

* test conda env rule

* set conda profile to automatically create env

* add option in conda profile to use mamba

* set conda profile to use env alredy available

* add mamba advice

* fixing conda prefix inside process

* user has to provide busco dbs for quast, to avoid errors

* tag now shows sample id

* fixing multiqc version

* making readme cleaner

* Update README.md

docs/installation.rst, after:

.. _installation:

Installation
============

Dependencies
------------

This pipeline requires only `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_ or `Singularity <https://sylabs.io/docs/>`_ and `Nextflow <https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/index.html>`_ to run.

1. Installing Docker or Singularity

   + Read more in the `docker <https://docs.docker.com/>`_ and `singularity <https://sylabs.io/docs/>`_ manuals

2. Installing Nextflow

   ``curl -s https://get.nextflow.io | bash``

3. Download the pipeline

   ``./nextflow pull fmalmeida/mpgap``

4. Test your installation

   ``./nextflow run fmalmeida/mpgap --help``

5. Download required Docker images

   .. code-block:: bash

      # for docker
      docker pull fmalmeida/mpgap:v3.1

      # for singularity
      # remember to properly set NXF_SINGULARITY_LIBRARYDIR
      # read more at https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/singularity.html#singularity-docker-hub
      export NXF_SINGULARITY_LIBRARYDIR=MY_SINGULARITY_IMAGES
      singularity pull --dir MY_SINGULARITY_IMAGES docker://fmalmeida/mpgap:v3.1
   
   * To understand how to change between profiles please refer to https://github.com/fmalmeida/MpGAP/tree/master#selecting-between-profiles

      * You can also run it with conda

6. (Optional) Install nf-core

   ``pip install nf-core>=1.10``

.. tip::

	The pipeline requires a UNIX system, therefore, Windows users may successfully use this pipeline via the `Linux subsystem for windows <https://www.nextflow.io/blog/2021/setup-nextflow-on-windows.html>`_.
