docs/quickstart.rst, before:

.. _quickstart:

**********
Quickstart
**********

Overview
========

During this quickstart we will use two example datasets. These datasets must be downloaded and pre-processed as
shown in my `ngs-preprocess pipeline quickstart <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html>`_.

After getting the data as already discussed in the above link, you might be able to follow up this quickstart on
assembling genomes with `MpGAP`.

All datasets can be assembled in two ways:

1. Through CLI parameterization
2. Or by a configuration file

.. note::

  The pipeline will always use the fastq file name as prefix for output files. For instance, if users use a
  fastq file named SRR7128258.fastq the output files and directories will have the string "SRR7128258" in it.

.. tip::

  The best way to execute these pipelines is by using a configuration file.
  With a proper configuration users can easily run the pipeline.

Prepare your for receiving outputs folders
------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Create dir for all assemblies
  mkdir -p dataset_{1,2}/assemblies

Assembling Oxford Nanopore reads
================================

Oxford nanopore reads are in the `example dataset 1 <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#id2>`_.

Via CLI parameterization
------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  nextflow run main_mpgap.nf --longreads 'dataset_1/preprocessed/ont_reads_trimmed.fastq' --lr_type 'nanopore' \
  --assembly_type 'longreads-only' --try_canu --try_flye --try_unicycler --genomeSize '3m' \
  --outDir 'dataset_1/assemblies/longreads-only' --prefix 'data1' --threads 4

.. tip::

  To perform a polishing step with Nanopolish one just need to add **--fast5Path 'dataset_1/ont/fast5_pass/'** to the execution

Via configuration file
----------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Download the configuration file
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_lreads_config && mv lreads-only.config 01_lreads-only.config

  # Then execute the pipeline
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_lreads-only.config &> 01_lreads-only_assembly.log

We have made **01_lreads-only.config** file
`available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/14y0q0hjyKgl5tbafBHNQDhgf9581OIvR/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Assembling Pacbio reads
=======================

Pacbio reads can be found in `example dataset 2 <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#id3>`_.
If you have not followed my previous quickstart in `ngs-preprocess pipeline <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
you will have subreads in fastq and bam formats.

Via CLI parameterization
------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Assembling via CLI
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --genomeSize 4.5m --lr_type pacbio \
  --pacbio_all_bam_path "path/to/m120131_103014_sidney_c100278822550000001523007907041295_s1_p0.subreads.bam" \
  --longreads "path/to/m120131_103014_sidney_c100278822550000001523007907041295_s1_p0.fastq" --try_flye \
  --outdir e-coli-k12-mg1655-raw-reads-1.3.0/2590338/0006/assembly --prefix ecoli --threads 3 --assembly_type longreads-only

.. tip::

  The parameter `--pacbio_all_bam_path` will tell the pipeline to run `Arrow` to polish pacbio-only assemblies.

Via configuration file
----------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Get longreads only config template
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_lreads_config && mv lreads-only.config 01_lreads-only-pacbio.config

  # Then execute the pipeline
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_lreads-only-pacbio.config &> 01_lreads-only-pacbio.log

We have made **01_lreads-only-pacbio.config** file
`available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/18qSyO8BnEhfU-opDqwXHnM-JCNDGrRLp/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Assembling Illumina reads
=========================

Illumina reads can be found in both `example dataset 1 <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#id2>`_
and `example dataset 2 <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#id3>`_. You can use any of them.

Via CLI parameterization
------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  ## Assembling via CLI
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --shortreads_paired 'dataset_1/illumina/read_pair_{1,2}.fastq' --assembly_type 'illumina-only' \
    --try_unicycler --try_spades --outDir 'dataset_1/assemblies/illumina-only' --prefix 'data1' --threads 4

Via configuration file
----------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Download the configuration file
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_sreads_config && mv sreads-only.config 01_sreads-only.config

  # Then execute the pipeline
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_sreads-only.config &> 01_sreads-only_assembly.log

We have made **01_sreads-only.config** file
`available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1caFay3skSjPmzqc1Uv2CRTB8_DlBrNwA/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Assembling Hybrid datasets
==========================

This pipeline can perform a hybrid assembly in two ways:

1. Directly through Unicycler or SPAdes hybrid methodologies (Only Unicycler or SPAdes)
2. Performing a long reads only assembly and polish it with Illumina reads using Pilon (Canu, Flye or Unicycler).

.. note::

  By default only methodology 1 is executed. If users want to also perform a long reads only assembly and polish it with short reads (Methodology 2),
  the parameter `illumina_polish_longreads_contigs` must be true. This will execute both methodologies 1 and 2. Do not forget to choose which assemblers
  to use: Canu and Flye and be used if methodology 2 is used.


Only through Unicycler or SPAdes hybrid methodologies
-----------------------------------------------------

.. note::

  For this one, users must select a hybrid assembly mode, set path to both long and short reads, and remember to set
  `params.illumina_polish_longreads_contigs = false`. This parameter is what is used to execute mode 2. If true,
  the pipeline will produce and polish a long reads only assembly with Canu, Flye or Unicycler.

Via CLI parameterization
""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: bash

  # Assembling via CLI
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --longreads 'dataset_1/preprocessed/ont_reads_trimmed.fastq' --lr_type 'nanopore' \
  --assembly_type 'hybrid' --shortreads_paired 'dataset_1/illumina/read_pair_{1,2}.fastq' --try_spades \
  --try_unicycler --outDir 'dataset_1/assemblies/hybrid_1' --prefix 'data1' --threads 4

Via configuration file
""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: bash

  # Download the configuration file
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_hybrid_config && mv hybrid.config 01_hybrid.config

  # Then execute the pipeline
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_hybrid.config &> 01_hybrid_assembly.log

We have made **01_hybrid.config** file `available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1M6jMIPCt6mPVCmz_tUJa_WcvU05kWmuR/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Both hybrid modes and longreads-only assembly polishing
-------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

  For this one, users must select a hybrid assembly mode, set path to both long and short reads, and remember to set
  `params.illumina_polish_longreads_contigs = true`. This parameter is what is used to execute mode 2. If true,
  the pipeline will produce and polish a long reads only assembly with Canu, Flye or Unicycler.

Via CLI parameterization
""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: bash

  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --longreads 'dataset_1/preprocessed/ont_reads_trimmed.fastq' --lr_type 'nanopore' \
      --assembly_type 'hybrid' --shortreads_paired 'dataset_1/illumina/read_pair_{1,2}.fastq' --try_spades \
      --try_unicycler --outDir 'dataset_1/assemblies/hybrid_1' --prefix 'data1' --threads 4 \
      --illumina_polish_longreads_contigs --try_flye --try_canu --genomeSize '3m'

Via configuration file
""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: bash

    # Download the configuration file
    nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_hybrid_config && mv hybrid.config 01_hybrid-2.config

    # Then execute the pipeline
    nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_hybrid-2.config &> 01_hybrid-2_assembly.log

We have made **01_hybrid-2.config** file `available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OYwfv4cJnSDTXRUJhg3DHXuCG3w5qvPU/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Afterwards
==========

After assembling a prokaryotic genome you can then annotate it. Why not give my other pipeline, `bacannot <https://bacannot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ a try? It wraps up lots
of databases and tools that can give a nice overview of your query genome.

Commit message:

Hybrid mode 2 working (ONT + Medaka) -- paired -- changed to mutually excludable strategies

docs/quickstart.rst, after:

.. _quickstart:

**********
Quickstart
**********

Overview
========

During this quickstart we will use two example datasets. These datasets must be downloaded and pre-processed as
shown in my `ngs-preprocess pipeline quickstart <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html>`_.

After getting the data as already discussed in the above link, you might be able to follow up this quickstart on
assembling genomes with `MpGAP`.

All datasets can be assembled in two ways:

1. Through CLI parameterization
2. Or by a configuration file

.. note::

  The pipeline will always use the fastq file name as prefix for output files. For instance, if users use a
  fastq file named SRR7128258.fastq the output files and directories will have the string "SRR7128258" in it.

.. tip::

  The best way to execute these pipelines is by using a configuration file.
  With a proper configuration users can easily run the pipeline.

Prepare your for receiving outputs folders
------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Create dir for all assemblies
  mkdir -p dataset_{1,2}/assemblies

Assembling Oxford Nanopore reads
================================

Oxford nanopore reads are in the `example dataset 1 <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#id2>`_.

Via CLI parameterization
------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  nextflow run main_mpgap.nf --longreads 'dataset_1/preprocessed/ont_reads_trimmed.fastq' --lr_type 'nanopore' \
  --assembly_type 'longreads-only' --try_canu --try_flye --try_unicycler --genomeSize '3m' \
  --outDir 'dataset_1/assemblies/longreads-only' --prefix 'data1' --threads 4

.. tip::

  To perform a polishing step with Nanopolish one just need to add **--fast5Path 'dataset_1/ont/fast5_pass/'** to the execution

Via configuration file
----------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Download the configuration file
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_lreads_config && mv lreads-only.config 01_lreads-only.config

  # Then execute the pipeline
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_lreads-only.config &> 01_lreads-only_assembly.log

We have made **01_lreads-only.config** file
`available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/14y0q0hjyKgl5tbafBHNQDhgf9581OIvR/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Assembling Pacbio reads
=======================

Pacbio reads can be found in `example dataset 2 <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#id3>`_.
If you have not followed my previous quickstart in `ngs-preprocess pipeline <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
you will have subreads in fastq and bam formats.

Via CLI parameterization
------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Assembling via CLI
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --genomeSize 4.5m --lr_type pacbio \
  --pacbio_all_bam_path "path/to/m120131_103014_sidney_c100278822550000001523007907041295_s1_p0.subreads.bam" \
  --longreads "path/to/m120131_103014_sidney_c100278822550000001523007907041295_s1_p0.fastq" --try_flye \
  --outdir e-coli-k12-mg1655-raw-reads-1.3.0/2590338/0006/assembly --prefix ecoli --threads 3 --assembly_type longreads-only

.. tip::

  The parameter `--pacbio_all_bam_path` will tell the pipeline to run `Arrow` to polish pacbio-only assemblies.

Via configuration file
----------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Get longreads only config template
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_lreads_config && mv lreads-only.config 01_lreads-only-pacbio.config

  # Then execute the pipeline
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_lreads-only-pacbio.config &> 01_lreads-only-pacbio.log

We have made **01_lreads-only-pacbio.config** file
`available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/18qSyO8BnEhfU-opDqwXHnM-JCNDGrRLp/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Assembling Illumina reads
=========================

Illumina reads can be found in both `example dataset 1 <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#id2>`_
and `example dataset 2 <https://ngs-preprocess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#id3>`_. You can use any of them.

Via CLI parameterization
------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  ## Assembling via CLI
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --shortreads_paired 'dataset_1/illumina/read_pair_{1,2}.fastq' --assembly_type 'illumina-only' \
    --try_unicycler --try_spades --outDir 'dataset_1/assemblies/illumina-only' --prefix 'data1' --threads 4

Via configuration file
----------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  # Download the configuration file
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_sreads_config && mv sreads-only.config 01_sreads-only.config

  # Then execute the pipeline
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_sreads-only.config &> 01_sreads-only_assembly.log

We have made **01_sreads-only.config** file
`available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1caFay3skSjPmzqc1Uv2CRTB8_DlBrNwA/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Assembling Hybrid datasets
==========================

This pipeline can perform a hybrid assembly in two ways:

1. Directly through Unicycler or SPAdes hybrid methodologies (Only Unicycler or SPAdes)
2. Performing a long reads only assembly and polish it with Illumina reads using Pilon (Canu, Flye or Unicycler).

.. note::

  By default only methodology 1 is executed. If users want to also perform a long reads only assembly and polish it with short reads (Methodology 2),
  the parameter `illumina_polish_longreads_contigs` must be true. This will execute both methodologies 1 and 2. Do not forget to choose which assemblers
  to use: Canu and Flye and be used if methodology 2 is used.


Only through Unicycler or SPAdes hybrid methodologies
-----------------------------------------------------

.. note::

  For this one, users must select a hybrid assembly mode, set path to both long and short reads, and remember to let
  `params.illumina_polish_longreads_contigs = false`. This parameter is what is used to execute mode 2. If true,
  the pipeline will produce and polish a long reads only assembly with Canu, Flye or Unicycler.

Via CLI parameterization
""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: bash

  # Assembling via CLI
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --longreads 'dataset_1/preprocessed/ont_reads_trimmed.fastq' --lr_type 'nanopore' \
  --assembly_type 'hybrid' --shortreads_paired 'dataset_1/illumina/read_pair_{1,2}.fastq' --try_spades \
  --try_unicycler --outDir 'dataset_1/assemblies/hybrid_1' --prefix 'data1' --threads 4

Via configuration file
""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: bash

  # Download the configuration file
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_hybrid_config && mv hybrid.config 01_hybrid.config

  # Then execute the pipeline
  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_hybrid.config &> 01_hybrid_assembly.log

We have made **01_hybrid.config** file `available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1M6jMIPCt6mPVCmz_tUJa_WcvU05kWmuR/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Hybrid mode 2, by polishing a longreads-only assembly polishing
---------------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

  For this one, users must select a hybrid assembly mode, set path to both long and short reads, and remember to set
  `params.illumina_polish_longreads_contigs = true`. This parameter is what is used to execute mode 2. If true,
  the pipeline will produce and polish a long reads only assembly with Canu, Flye or Unicycler.

.. note::

  It is also possible to combine polishings with Medaka, Nanopolish or Arrow by using setting the correct parameters:
  pacbio_all_bam_path, nanopolish_fast5Path or medaka_sequencing_model. These will tell the pipeline to polish the
  assemblies with these software before polishing with shortreads (using Pilon).

Via CLI parameterization
""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: bash

  nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --longreads 'dataset_1/preprocessed/ont_reads_trimmed.fastq' --lr_type 'nanopore' \
      --assembly_type 'hybrid' --shortreads_paired 'dataset_1/illumina/read_pair_{1,2}.fastq' --try_spades \
      --try_unicycler --outDir 'dataset_1/assemblies/hybrid_1' --prefix 'data1' --threads 4 \
      --illumina_polish_longreads_contigs --try_flye --try_canu --genomeSize '3m'

Via configuration file
""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: bash

    # Download the configuration file
    nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP --get_hybrid_config && mv hybrid.config 01_hybrid-2.config

    # Then execute the pipeline
    nextflow run fmalmeida/MpGAP -c 01_hybrid-2.config &> 01_hybrid-2_assembly.log

We have made **01_hybrid-2.config** file `available online <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OYwfv4cJnSDTXRUJhg3DHXuCG3w5qvPU/view?usp=sharing>`_ for a better understanding.

Afterwards
==========

After assembling a prokaryotic genome you can then annotate it. Why not give my other pipeline, `bacannot <https://bacannot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ a try? It wraps up lots
of databases and tools that can give a nice overview of your query genome.
